Pokemon Moon, along with its counterpart, Pokemon Sun, herald the seventh generation of Pokemon games for the handheld console selection. Pokemon Moon takes a massive leap from the previous generation of games; X and Y. The graphics have been updated to give a more realistic look, seen predominantly in the character models, they went from chibi-like to models to a more proportional look. 
The overall look has changed too, and the layout of the bag and battle menu has changed. In battle, the move selection screen now also displays type effectiveness, provided you have battled the particular species of Pokemon previously. As with each generation, this is just another feature to make the game more streamlined for newer players.
Perhaps the most revolutionary feature of Pokemon Moon is the story progression system. Previously, you had to progress through eight gyms in order to use “HMs”, moves that let you traverse through terrain otherwise not traversable, in order to complete the story. The old, tedious system has been replaced with a new system, in the form of “trials”. These trials are more interactive, interesting and contain more variety than the previous system, and are a welcome addition.
Older Pokemon have received updates to both design, and their stats and abilities. These Pokemon, all from Kanto, have received formes known as “Alolan Forms”. As mentioned previously, they have received new designs, differently distributed stats and different abilities. Some improve on their predecessors, some don’t do as good of a job (such as Alolan Persian). That said, many players have noticed a bit of favoritism going on with generation one Pokemon. Pokemon Go’s Pokemon catalog consisted of entirely generation one Pokemon, Mega Evolutions from generation six consisted of a majority generation one crew, and now Alolan Formes consist entirely of generation one Pokemon! 
Pokemon Moon has introduced a new storyline, and whilst the general idea is the same (Defeat evil team, use legendary Pokemon to save the world, blah blah blah), there is a noticeable improvement amongst previous games. Sun and Moon are unique in that important characters experience some form of character development, improving themselves in some form of another. Bonds between characters are formed, and these bonds permeate beyond the game, giving you a good sense of immersion and attachment. However, this is both ruined and enhanced by the puns included in the game, featured by many characters, both good and evil.
However, despite its positives, Pokemon Moon is not without its detriments. Performance issues can be experienced on older 3DS systems, especially in some battles, and the post-game is repetitive, with not as much variety and side-quests as other games. Also, the Pokemon in this generation are quite slow in comparison to Pokemon from previous generation. While this may not have much of an impact in-game, in the competitive scene, the speed stat is quite important, and thus some Pokemon that would be excellent otherwise, have taken a tumbling due to the low average speed of this generation of Pokemon.

